# Monologue
Most of you know me, Bill Gates, as the founder of Microsoft and once the richest person in the world. Whenever I get recognized as one of these titles, it always brings me back to the early days of my childhood when I was captivated by the computer for the first time. Those days were filled with the excitement of the new discoveries I found while playing with electronics. However, my journey to be one of the most influential people really began much earlier than that. On October 28th, 1955, in Seattle, Washington, I was brought into this world by my two wonderful parents, Mary Gates and William Gates. From the start, my intelligence was distinguished from others, which was of course proven when I read the entire World Book Encyclopedia at the age of 8. It wasn’t only my natural talents that set me apart, though. It was my hard work and competitive mindset that pushed me to that higher level. In everything I put effort into, I tried to be the best, and might I say, I was mostly successful. My competitive nature later played a major role in the development of Microsoft.
The next period of my life kicked off when I discovered the magnificent microcomputer at Lakeside School. It was there that I found other people who were at the same level as me, most notably Paul Allen, a lifelong friend who later helped me create Microsoft. My fascination with computers was skyrocketing, and it soon became clear what I would spend the rest of my life working with. Along with my equally interested buddies, I mastered the BASIC programming language and developed my first company, Traf-O-Data. Paul Allen and I had created a program that analyzed traffic data to sell to local authorities. This played a vital role in furthering my interest in business. But I couldn’t jump straight into my dreams just yet. My family pressured me into going to college, and when I aced all my final exams, it came as no surprise when I was accepted to Harvard. That may sound like a brilliant path to follow these days, but my time at Harvard was underwhelming, to say the least. Even though I did meet another lifelong friend, Steve Ballmer, I was too distracted by the computer industry and my business plans to produce any good out of my education, and I fell into a deep depression that was fueled by a growing poker addiction. So, when the chance came, much against my mother’s will, I bolted to Albuquerque with Paul Allen and started the future business giant, Microsoft.
Things at Microsoft started smoothly. We partnered up with Model Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems (MITS) to distribute BASIC software that allowed users to use the programming language on the computers that MITS was selling. However, it soon fell ill when MITS terminated their association with Microsoft due to Microsoft wanting to distribute the software to other parties. In reality, MITS was on the worse end of the deal, as Microsoft began to escalate soon after. Moving the company back to Seattle, I was on a business spree, setting up foreign relations to Japan and expanding horizons to application software. The real turning point for Microsoft was when we partnered with IBM, licensing the MS-DOS, or Microsoft-Disk Operating System, to be used on their personal computers. With hopes at an all time high, I developed the better, more user-friendly Windows OS that all of you know today. Eventually, my perseverance and competitive drive turned Microsoft into a multi-billion-dollar company that sat on top of the tech industry.
After my uprising with Microsoft, I met Melinda French and was married on January 1, 1994. During our honeymoon trip to Africa, I witnessed devastating states of poverty that inspired me to create the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The foundation was founded based on the belief that every person deserved to live a healthy, productive life, no matter where or what conditions they were born under. Melinda and I worked together to make this dream come true, and the birth of our three children, Jennifer, Rory, and Phoebe, prompted me to incorporate educational support within the foundation. Today, it is one of the most successful charity organizations in the world.
So, when I look back on my journey, from the early days of tinkering with computers to founding Microsoft, dropping out of Harvard, and beyond, I see a common thread of curiosity, determination, and a desire to make a difference. And while my role may have changed over the years, my commitment to using technology to help society remains as strong as ever.
