Wonderful Adventures of Nils 
============================
***HTMS school project for Reading***

**Author:** *James Liu* &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Date:** *November 2023*

The Wonderful Adventures of Nils is a captivating book that contains many fascinating stories. It is perfect for 
someone who loves a light-hearted and humorous read. The book is also meant to teach children about the geography of 
Sweden, which is where the story takes place. The novel starts off with the main character, Nils Holgersson, being left 
home alone to memorize Bible verses. Nils is a rebellious teen whose favorite pastime is messing with the animals on 
their farm. However, Nils falls asleep reading and wakes up to find an elf next to him. He manages to catch the elf in 
a snare and the elf begins to bargain for his own freedom. The tiny creature proposes to give Nils an old coin, a 
silver spoon, and a gold penny. Nils agrees, but at the last second, he tries to trick the elf and trap him again. 
However, Nils feels a stinging in his ears and instantly collapses. When he wakes up again, he finds that he has been 
turned into an elf! Miraculously, Nils also finds out that he can understand and talk to animals. While this is 
happening, wild geese are flying over the farm and a white gander wants to join them. Nils sees this and tries to 
prevent the gander from taking flight by jumping on the bird, as it would be a big blow to his family if a goose left. 
He is too small and little to have any effect on the goose, so he is forced to join the flock. At first, Akka, the leader of the geese, seems unhappy to have the outsiders join her, but the geese are eventually unbothered by 
them. Nils proves to become useful and earns his respect when he saves Akka from Smirre, a fox who hunts the geese.

Thus, Nilsâ€™ adventures begin. As the flock travels the country, they stop at multiple provinces for food and rest. At 
each of these locations, Nils partakes in interesting quests around the area. These include saving a castle from rats, 
visiting a city with statues that come to life, and getting kidnapped by crows. All the while, Nils is beginning to 
respect animals. Being small and weak has humbled Nils, and he does not view things the same way as before. However, 
Nils still must find the elf and hope that he can turn Nils back into a human. Smirre Fox is meanwhile in pursuit to 
kill Nils, for Nils humiliated him. All over the country, Smirre follows the geese but never seems to have the chance 
to even touch them.

Can Nils still manage to get back home in human form? The adventures seem endless in this book, with each new one 
bringing a whole new story.

## References
1. [Wonderful Adventures of Nils](https://digital.library.upenn.edu/women/lagerlof/nils/nils.html)
2. [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wonderful_Adventures_of_Nils)

